Release notes for V3.0.0-preview2 (#1034)
dotnet/SqlClient: release-notes/3.0/3.0.0-preview2.md

# Release Notes

## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 3.0.0-preview2.21105.01 released 15 April 2021

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

### Breaking Changes over Preview V3.0.0-preview1
- `User Id` now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity**.

> - **SqlDataReader** now returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. To active the legacy behaviour, you must enable the following AppContext switch: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SqlDataReader** now returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. To active the legacy behavior, you must enable the following AppContext switch: 
```

> **"Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.LegacyRowVersionNullBehaviour"**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**"Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.LegacyRowVersionNullBehavior"**
```

### Added
- Added support for Azure Identity [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010)

### Fixed
- Fixed wrong data blended with transactions in .NET Core by marking a connection with open result sets to be doomed [#1023](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1023)
- Fixed derived parameters containing typename incorrectly [#1020](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1020)
- Fixed socket array length to avoid possible out of bounds errors [#1031](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1031)

> - Fixed **rowversion** null behaviour to return `DBNull` instead of an empty `byte[]` [#998](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/998)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed **rowversion** null behavior to return `DBNull` instead of an empty `byte[]` [#998](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/998)
```

# Release Notes

## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 3.0.0-preview2.21105.01 released 15 April 2021

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

### Breaking Changes over preview release V3.0.0-preview1

> - `User Id` connection property now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `User Id` connection property now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#Azure-Identity-dependency-introduction)
```

- `SqlDataReader` now returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. Legacy behavior can be enabled by setting `AppContext` switch **Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.LegacyRowVersionNullBehavior** [#998](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/998)

### Added

> - `User Id` connection property now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#Azure-Identity-dependency-introduction)
```

- Improved memory allocation by avoiding unnecessary context switching [1008](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1008)
- Various performance improvements [#963](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/963) [#996](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/996) [#1004](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1004) [#1012](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1012) [#1017](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1017)
- Event source tracing improvements [#1018](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1018)
- Changes to share common files between NetFx and NetCore source code [#871](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/871) [#887](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/887)

### Azure Identity dependency introduction
**Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library underneath to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. This changes brings below changes to public surface area:

- **Breaking Change**  
  "User Id" connection property now accepts "Client Id" instead of "Object Id" for "User-Assigned Managed Identity".  
- **Public API**  

>   New read-only public property: `SqlAuthenticationParameters.ConnectionTimeout  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  New read-only public property: `SqlAuthenticationParameters.ConnectionTimeout`
```

- Fixed server connection leak possibilities when an exception occurs in pooling layer [#890](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/890)
- Fixed IP connection resolving logic in .NET Core [#1016](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1016) [#1031](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1031)

### Changed
- Performance improvements in `SqlDateTime` to `DateTime` internal conversion method [#912](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/912)
- Improved memory allocation by avoiding unnecessary context switching [1008](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1008)
- Various performance improvements [#963](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/963) [#996](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/996) [#1004](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1004) [#1012](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1012) [#1017](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1017)
- Event source tracing improvements [#1018](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1018)
- Changes to share common files between NetFx and NetCore source code [#871](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/871) [#887](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/887)

### Azure Identity dependency introduction

> **Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library underneath to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. This changes brings below changes to public surface area:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library underneath to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. This change brings the following changes to public surface area:
```

- **Breaking Change**  
  "User Id" connection property now accepts "Client Id" instead of "Object Id" for "User-Assigned Managed Identity".  
- **Public API**  
  New read-only public property: `SqlAuthenticationParameters.ConnectionTimeout`
- **Dependency**  
  Azure.Identity v1.3.0

### Event tracing improvements in SNI.dll
`Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET Core/Standard dependency) versions have been updated to `v3.0.0-preview1.21104.2`. Event tracing in SNI.dll will no longer be enabled through a client application. Subscribing a session to the **Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.EventSource** provider through tools like xperf or perfview will be sufficient.

### Enabling row version null behavior

> `SqlDataReader` returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. To active the legacy behavior, you must enable the following AppContext switch that is cached on first check for the entire process:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`SqlDataReader` returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. To enable the legacy behavior, you must enable the following AppContext switch on application startup:
```

# Release Notes

## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 3.0.0-preview2.21105.01 released 15 April 2021

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

### Breaking Changes over preview release V3.0.0-preview1

> - `User Id` connection property now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)

Reviewer 4: Accepts? Requires/ uses?

> - `User Id` connection property now accepts `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `User Id` connection property now requires `Client Id` instead of `Object Id` for **User-Assigned Managed Identity** [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)
```

- `SqlDataReader` now returns a `DBNull` value instead of an empty `byte[]`. Legacy behavior can be enabled by setting `AppContext` switch **Switch.Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.LegacyRowVersionNullBehavior** [#998](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/998) [Read more](#enabling-row-version-null-behavior)

### Added

> **Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library to acquire a token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. [#1010](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1010) [Read more](#azure-identity-dependency-introduction)
```

- Upgraded Native SNI dependency to **v3.0.0-preview1** along with enhanced event tracing support [#1006](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1006) [Read more](#event-tracing-improvements-in-sni.dll)

### Fixed

> - Fixed wrong data blended with transactions in .NET Core by marking a connection with open result to be doomed [#1023](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1023)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fixed wrong data blended with transactions in .NET Core by marking a connection as doomed if the transaction completes or aborts while there is an open result set [#1023](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1023)
```

> - Fixed derived parameters containing typename incorrectly [#1020](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1020)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Fixed derived parameters containing incorrect typename [#1020](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1020)
```

- Improved memory allocation by avoiding unnecessary context switching [1008](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1008)
- Updated `Microsoft.Identity.Client` version from **4.21.1** to **4.22.0** [#1036](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1036)
- Various performance improvements [#963](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/963) [#996](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/996) [#1004](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1004) [#1012](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1012) [#1017](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1017)
- Event source tracing improvements [#1018](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1018)
- Changes to share common files between NetFx and NetCore source code [#871](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/871) [#887](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/887)

### Azure Identity dependency introduction
**Microsoft.Data.SqlClient** now depends on **Azure.Identity** library underneath to acquire token for "Active Directory Managed Identity/MSI" and "Active Directory Service Principal" authentication modes. This change brings the following changes to public surface area:

- **Breaking Change**  

>   "User Id" connection property now accepts "Client Id" instead of "Object Id" for "User-Assigned Managed Identity".  

Reviewer 4: Accepts ?
